In previous videos we can figure this typology we can forget NHS IP router configured spanning tree
we configured the GOP on the course switches and the Internet facing Rodda and we've done various things
to optimize the typology in this video I'm going to configure a network address translation on router
3 to enable devices in our Jeana's three topology to access the internet use router three router three
is configured with an IP address on fust.
Ethan it is 0 1 and the IP address is 1 2 1 6 8 1 1 24 router 3 has a default gateway of 1 2 1 6 8 1
2 5 4.
This is the internet facing Rodda in the cloud that router does not have the ability to run routing
protocols.
So I can't advertise the Ten Network running with ingenius 3 2 DAC router.
So to get this to work I'm simply going to enable that on router 3.
With this being the outside interface and this being the inside interface not to be correct with wording
we actually enabling port address translation so that multiple devices in our topology can be nattered
to the IP address on the interface.
So on first Ethan it is 0 1 I'm going to use the Kamani IP Nat outside to enable Nat on the interface
and make it to be the outside interface from a net point of view.
That takes a while to come up in June 3.
But after a while a should be able to configure this interface as the inside.
And there you go so fast.
Ethan it is 0 0 IP Nat in site.
So we've told the Rodda that this interfaces the outside interface.
This interface is the inside interface.
So now we need to configure Nat and we do that by tapping the command IP Nat insight.
I want a NAT devices on the inside network.
And in this case I want to net source IP addresses based on an access list which is going to be access
list one and began and then on to interface first Ethernet is 0 1 and we going to enable that by using
the overload keyword.
So the next step is to create an access list which is X-ists list one referenced over here in the net
command.
And I'm going to permit all devices in the 10 network
so show run pipe include a NAT shows me that we've got Nat configured on the inside interface that is
configured on the outside interface and we are overloading the outside interface not to be precise we
should do this show run interface first Ethan it's 0 0 and we can see that IP not inside is enabled
on that interface an IP net to outside is enabled on fast Ethernet 0 1 show IP that translations at
the moment there are no net translations.
So let's go on to Rotto one acting as PC one.
And let's see if we can ping Google dot com at the moment.
Notice please that it's trying to translate Google dot com using a broadcast and this takes a while
to time out.
The reason why is the Rhondda is doing a domain lookup.
Now that's not shown by default in the running config.
But if I type no IP domain look up and then try and ping Google dot com again.
Notice the ping times are immediately if I use IP domain Look-Up I should specify my DNS server.
So IP names the.
And in this case I'll specify Google when I try and ping Google dot com.
In this case notice it works.
We got a reply from the Google DNS server and we were able to ping googled outcome Ratta once traffic
is being enacted by router 3.
So notice we can see the net translations has the connection to the Google DNS server and he has the
connection to Google this is the IP address of Rotto one on the inside interface.
And this is the netted IP address of rodder one which is the IP address of first East and it is 0 1
as shown over there.
I'll show these together
so D-bag IP that that's actually on the wrong rattus on all router three de-bug IP Nat and what I'll
do now is I will do a ping to Google dot com.
And what we should see is you should see the net translations taking place and they you go notice source
IP address 10 1 10 11 the IP address was translated to 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 1 24.
That's the IP address once again our first Ethernet is 0 1 on router 3 going to google dotcom the initial
ping timed out.
So we saw that there.
But there's the second ping and there's the reply to the ping from Google destination IP address of
1 2 1 6 8 1 1 24 he's translated back to standard one to 10 or 11 is forwarded through the network to
route one show IP that translation shows me that at the moment there are no net translations they've
timed out.
So let's telnet to Google dot com on port 80.
You can see that it's connected.
So it's opening that connection.
And in the net translations you can see here is the DNS request to the DNS server and the reply.
And he has the connection to the Google server.
So show IP Nat translation shows me the DNS request and this is the connection to the web server.
In other words Google dot com on port 80.
You can see that we are currently connected to the Google server or press control see on the Rodda Precentor
we can see something happening in the not translations.
I use Control shift 6 x to jump back to the Rodda because it's keeping the connection open so disconnect
my connection so we've successfully configured Nat in this network a lying rod a one to connect to Google.
Let's do the same on router to acting as PC to its own PC to IP name server will be Google paying.
She's another server.
Cisco dot com can see that the DNS query succeeded and we were able to ping Cisco dot com.
What about CNN.com.
In this case the pings are being dropped by the server.
So let's try Yahoo.
Dot com we can see that the pings succeed.
So we've successfully configured the entire network as well as configured Nat on router 3 and these
routers acting as PCs can now access devices on the Internet.